# DA-Bike-sharing-project
Background 
=========================================

Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return 
back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return 
back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of 
over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, 
environmental and health issues. 

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by
these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration
of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into
a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important
events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

=========================================
Data Set
=========================================
Bike-sharing rental process is highly correlated to the environmental and seasonal settings. For instance, weather conditions,
precipitation, day of week, season, hour of the day, etc. can affect the rental behaviors


Content
There are 3 datasets that provide data on the stations, trips, and weather from 2014-2016.
Station dataset
station_id: station ID number
name: name of station
lat: station latitude
long: station longitude
install_date: date that station was placed in service
install_dockcount: number of docks at each station on the installation date
modification_date: date that station was modified, resulting in a change in location or dock count
current_dockcount: number of docks at each station on 8/31/2016
decommission_date: date that station was placed out of service
Trip dataset
trip_id: numeric ID of bike trip taken
starttime: day and time trip started, in PST
stoptime: day and time trip ended, in PST
bikeid: ID attached to each bike
tripduration: time of trip in seconds
fromstationname: name of station where trip originated
tostationname: name of station where trip terminated
fromstationid: ID of station where trip originated
tostationid: ID of station where trip terminated
usertype: "Short-Term Pass Holder" is a rider who purchased a 24-Hour or 3-Day Pass; "Member" is a rider who purchased a Monthly or an Annual Membership
gender: gender of rider
birthyear: birth year of rider
Weather dataset contains daily weather information in the service area
Acknowledgements
The original datasets can be downloaded here.
Inspiration
Some ideas worth exploring:
What is the most popular bike route?
How are bike uses or routes affected by user characteristics, station features, and weather?


source : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/pronto/cycle-share-dataset

